--- Page 1 ---
ORACLE
LiveStack AI Developer
Oracle LiveStack Demo Setup Guide
Page 1
Oracle LiveStack AI Developer Demo Setup Guide
1. Install Podman Desktop
Start here. Podman Desktop gives Mac and Windows users a visual
way to install the Podman engine, create the Podman machine, and
see LiveStack containers after Compose starts them.
PODMAN
Download Podman Desktop
macOS install guide
Windows install guide
1
Download the official installer
Use the Podman Desktop site. On macOS, prefer the .dmg installer. On Windows, use the Windows
installer or WinGet if your team supports it.
2
Run first-time onboarding
Open Podman Desktop and click Start Onboarding. Before creating the machine, close unnecessary apps
and confirm you have about 35 GB of free disk space.
3
Install Compose when prompted
During onboarding, install the Compose CLI. If you skipped onboarding, open Settings > Resources and
use the Compose tile Setup action.
4
Verify the machine is running
In Podman Desktop, go to Settings > Resources and confirm the Podman machine is running. In a
terminal, podman version and podman compose version should both respond.
macOS checklist
Use the .dmg installer, drag Podman Desktop into
Applications, launch it, then complete onboarding.
Keep about 35 GB free before creating the machine.
Windows checklist
Use the installer or WinGet. Windows needs WSL 2
or Hyper-V. Keep about 35 GB free, close heavy
apps, and restart if setup asks.
podman version
podman compose version
Most common Podman setup problems
Podman machine is stopped:
 start it from Settings > Resources or run 
podman machine start
.
compose command missing:
 install Compose from Podman Desktop Settings > Resources.
Windows WSL issues:
 update WSL, restart Windows, then rerun Podman Desktop onboarding.
Machine creation is slow:
 close heavy apps, keep your laptop plugged in, and allow roughly 35 GB free disk space.
--- Page 2 ---
ORACLE
LiveStack AI Developer
Oracle LiveStack Demo Setup Guide
Page 2
Oracle LiveStack AI Developer Demo Setup Guide
2. Use LiveStacks Orchestrator
Use the attached LiveStacks Orchestrator skill to generate a full
Oracle-first demo stack from a business problem. Everyone should
use a unique industry and pain-point pair to avoid duplicate work.
GENERATE
Attached skill zip
Codex skills folder
Podman Desktop
1
Confirm the skill is installed
If LiveStacks Orchestrator is already available in Codex, skip ahead. Otherwise unzip the attached
livestacks-orchestrator.zip into your Codex skills folder and restart Codex.
macOS skill location
~/.codex/skills/livestacks-orchestrator
Restart Codex after installing or replacing the skill.
Windows skill location
%USERPROFILE%\.codex\skills
Unzip so the folder is named
livestacks-orchestrator
. Restart Codex after
installing or replacing the skill.
2
Create a dedicated output folder
Ask Codex to create a new folder for your generated demo. Keep the generated LiveStack separate from
this setup guide and from other students work.
3
Paste the exact build prompt
Use the prompt below. It invokes LiveStacks Orchestrator, names the folder, and includes the unique
Healthcare no-show-risk assignment.
Use $livestacks-orchestrator and create a new folder called
healthcare-no-show-risk-livestack to build a LiveStack for Healthcare focused on:
Care coordinators cannot spot rising patient no-show risk early enough, which leads
to wasted appointment slots, poor provider utilization, and missed opportunities
to proactively re-engage high-risk patients.
4
Wait for the generated package
The finished LiveStack should include a generated application folder with a stack/ directory, a Compose
file, database and ORDS assets, documentation, and a guide/ workshop package.
Unique assignment for this learner
Industry:
 Healthcare
Pain point:
 care coordinators cannot spot rising patient no-show risk early enough, wasting appointment slots and
limiting proactive re-engagement.
Suggested folder:
 healthcare-no-show-risk-livestack
--- Page 3 ---
ORACLE
LiveStack AI Developer
Oracle LiveStack Demo Setup Guide
Page 3
Oracle LiveStack AI Developer Demo Setup Guide
3. Build and run the generated
stack
After Codex generates the LiveStack, point Podman at the generated
application folder and run Compose from the stack directory. This is
where the real demo starts.
RUN
Run Compose files
Set up Compose
Compose tutorial
1
Open the generated application folder
Find the folder Codex created, for example healthcare-no-show-risk-livestack. Inside it, open the stack
directory. That stack directory should contain compose.yml or compose.yaml.
2
Use the compose file that exists
Examples below use compose.yml. If your generated stack uses compose.yaml instead, replace
compose.yml with compose.yaml. If both exist, use the one referenced by the generated README.
3
Build, then start the stack
Run build first so local images are created, then run up in detached mode so containers continue running
while you use Podman Desktop and the browser.
cd /path/to/healthcare-no-show-risk-livestack/stack
podman compose -f compose.yml build
podman compose -f compose.yml up -d
4
Watch it in Podman Desktop
Open Podman Desktop > Containers. Wait for db, ords, ollama, and app to become healthy or running,
then open http://localhost:8505 in a browser to test the new application.
Windows PowerShell version
cd C:\path\to\healthcare-no-show-risk-livestack\stack
$compose = "compose.yml"; if (!(Test-Path
$compose)) { $compose = "compose.yaml" }
podman compose -f $compose build
podman compose -f $compose up -d
Open the running app
Application:
 http://localhost:8505
Open this in your browser after the app container is
running.
ORDS:
 http://localhost:8181
Database:
 localhost:1521
Stop, restart, and troubleshoot
Stop:
 podman compose -f compose.yml down
View logs:
 podman compose -f compose.yml logs -f app
Port already in use:
 stop the older LiveStack or change only if the generated README explicitly supports it.
--- Page 4 ---
ORACLE
LiveStack AI Developer
Oracle LiveStack Demo Setup Guide
Page 4
Oracle LiveStack AI Developer Demo Setup Guide
4. Demo day checklist
Use this final page to avoid the most common classroom failures:
wrong folder, stopped Podman machine, missing Compose, or using a
compose file from the wrong directory.
CHECK
Before you present
1. Podman Desktop is open, about 35 GB of disk space is free, and the Podman machine is running.
2. You are in the generated application 
stack/
 directory, not the repo root and not the guide folder.
3. The Compose file exists: 
compose.yml
 or 
compose.yaml
.
4. You ran 
podman compose -f compose.yml build
 before 
podman compose -f compose.yml up -d
.
5. Open 
http://localhost:8505
 in a browser to test the running application.
If the app does not open
Check Podman Desktop containers first. If app is
stopped, open logs. If db or ords is still starting, wait
and refresh. Some AI model warmup steps can take
several minutes and can use significant CPU,
memory, and disk.
If Compose fails
Confirm Compose is installed in Podman Desktop.
Run 
podman compose version
. Then rerun from
the stack/ directory with the exact compose filename.
What a good generated LiveStack usually contains
stack/
 with compose.yml or compose.yaml, app container, ORDS, database, and supporting services.
guide/
 with a LiveLabs-style walkthrough aligned to the app scenes.
database/
 assets showing how Oracle Database powers the demo.
docs or README
 explaining ports, startup, validation, and customer-data replacement.
podman compose -f compose.yml ps
podman compose -f compose.yml logs -f app
podman compose -f compose.yml down